Note: This is identical to our design.txt file from the Piconot assignment.
We have chosen to implement our ideal grammar from that assignment.


Who is the target for this design, e.g., are you assuming any knowledge on the
part of the language users?

Our target user for this design is someone who is generally unfamiliar with
programming. In particular, we are targeting someone who is unfamiliar with
the standard Picobot syntax.


Why did you choose this design, i.e., why did you think it would be a good idea
for users to express the maze-searching computation using this syntax?

We chose this syntax because it clarifies the more symbol-based syntax of the
original Picobot. While Picobot's syntax is more concise than ours, our
syntax (hopefully) makes a Piconot program more or less intuitively obvious to
someone who has never before been exposed to Picobot. Furthermore, by requiring
all of the rules for a state to occur next to one another in a program, we
hopefully encourage users to structure their programs in a way that will be
easier to read and reason about.


What behaviors are easier to express in your design than in Picobot’s original
design?  If there are no such behaviors, why not?

We think that it is easier to express wildcards in our syntax because our
syntax eliminates them altogether. In other words, by requiring the user to
specify only the directions they care about, the user need not think about
wildcards.


What behaviors are more difficult to express in your design than in Picobot’s
original design? If there are no such behaviors, why not?

Because our design is very closely related to the original design of Picobot
(semantically, at least), everything that can be expressed in Picobot can be
clearly expressed in our syntax. However, because our syntax is more verbose
than the original syntax, every program in our syntax is longer than the
corresponding program in the original Picobot. We thought this was a
worthwhile tradeoff to make (especially given the advent of copy-paste
functionality), but others may feel differently about that choice.


On a scale of 1–10 (where 10 is “very different”), how different is your syntax
from PicoBot’s original design?

We think that our syntax is a 5. Our syntax is different from the original
syntax in that a program in our syntax looks very different from a program
in the original Picobot syntax. However, the semantics of our design and the
original design are very similar and anyone familiar with both would likely
be able to see the similarities between the two.


Is there anything you don’t like about your design?

In general, we are pretty happy with our design. That said, we feel we could
have done a better job making the idea of a state clear, as the "STATE 0:"
header is probably the least clear part of the syntax. Furthermore, our
syntax (as described in grammar-ideal.txt) is not particularly forgiving
with regard to whitespace and it doesn't allow for in-line comments. While
we decided to forego those features in the interest of simplicity, users may
expect those features and be upset upon realizing their absence.

